=pod

=head1 NAME

DICOPP - Details for the dicopp daemon.

Last update: 2004-09-09

=head1 OVERVIEW

C<dicopp> is the proxy for a Dicop::Server. Use the C<Dicop::Server> package
if you want to setup a main server.

=head2 Starting

To start the daemon in the foreground, type

	./dicopp

It is recommended to run it in the background, as well as redirect its STDERR
output to a file with:

	./dicopp 2>stderr.txt &

You can then follow the startup phase with C<tail -f stderr.txt>, which might
take a few seconds to complete.

=head2 Connecting to it, Administration

You can connect with any webbrowser to the running daemon like it where a web
server. If your daemon is on IP 192.168.0.1 and listening on port 8889 (the
default), then connect to:

	http://192.168.0.1:8889/

From there on you should be able to navigate through the pages.

=head2 Troubleshooting

=over 2

=item Tainchecking

Please note that

	perl dicopp

will not work, since then the taint checking won't work. You must either start
it with C<-T> on the commandline like this:

	perl -w -T dicopp

or this:

	./dicopp

=item ssh

When usin ssh to connect to a machine, and then starting the daemon from there,
it is possible that the daemon is killed when you simple close the terminal
window. You need to logout first, the logout might hang, but you can then
safely close the terminal window.

=back

=head2 PORT, GROUP, USER

The port to bind on, the user and group can be set in C<config/server.cfg>. You
should, for security reasons, create a new user and group for the daemon.

Please make sure that the user and group actually exist, or the daemon will not
start.

=head1 AUTHOR

(c) Bundesamt fuer Sicherheit in der Informationstechnik 1998-2006

DiCoP is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 as published by the Free
Software Foundation.

See the file LICENSE or L<http://www.bsi.bund.de/> for more information.

=cut

