
=pod

=head1 NAME

TROUBLE - Troubleshooting

Last update: 2005-06-22

=head1 OVERVIEW

This document provides you with help for certain troubling moments that
are often experienced, but have (usually :) a simple solution.

=head1 QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

=head2 The daemon does not start, or immidiately stops without any message

Answer:

=over 2

=item *

Run the daemon dicopd in the foreground, to see possible error messages.

=item *

Look into logs/error.log and logs/proxy.log for error messages.

=item *

Check that all files in C<logs/> are writeable by the user/group you want the
daemon to run under. F.i. running it under user=dicop, group=dicop means
that C<logs/>, C<logs/error.log> and C<logs/proxy.log> must be writable by 
the user C<dicop>.

=back

=head2 The daemon complains about missing mail templates on startup?

Answer:

Make sure you have:

        mailtxt_dir = mail

in your config file (and not C<tpl/mail>). The prefix will be automatically
added from whatever your C<tpl_dir> setting in the server config is.

Also, did you remember to rename the sample mail text files in that
directory by removing the C<.sample> prefix?

=head2 I get a message about "bad protocol: tcp"

Answer:

This is message might appear as an error message at a client when it
connects to the proxy.

You are likely running Dicop-Proxy in a chroot environment and the
file C</etc/protocols> is not available in the chroot.

To solve this, create a directory C<etc/> in your Dicop-Proxy directory
and copy the file C</etc/protocols> to it:

	cd /dicop-proxy/		# or wherever you unpacked the proxy
	mkdir etc
	cp /etc/protocols etc/

=head1 AUTHOR

(C) Bundesamt fuer Sicherheit in der Informationstechnik 1998-2006.

For licensing information please refer to the LICENSE file.

=head1 CONTACT

	Address: BSI
	         Referat 123
        	 Godesberger Alle 185-189
	         Bonn
	         53175
	         Germany
	email:   dicop@bsi.bund.de              (for public key see dicop.asc)
	www:     http://www.bsi.bund.de/

Please file bugreports under L<http://rt.cpan.org/>.

=cut
